Both say there’s no race, but Rubio and Vance take a 2028 turn


  Analysis by Stephen Collinson, CNN


Updated: 
        12:01 AM EDT, Wed May 20, 2026
    

  Source: CNN


  JD Vance just made his pitch in the GOP’s maternity leave primary.


  The vice president held court in the White House briefing room Tuesday, with press secretary Karoline Leavitt at home with her newborn.


  Vance followed Secretary of State Marco Rubio — the other half of a possible 2028 GOP presidential succession drama — who held his own briefing, which launched a viral campaign-style video on his hopes for America, two weeks ago.


  The two youngish Republicans — Rubio is 54, without a gray hair in sight, and Vance is 41 — turned the clock back to a pre-Trump era of less brutish and viciously personal politics, foreshadowing how they might evolve MAGA when the president finally bulldozes his way back to Florida for good.


  Given crises assailing the administration — an Iran war that it can’t end, a widening Ebola outbreak in Africa and polls showing the nation has never had less confidence in Trump — talk of 2028 seems like a Beltway fever dream.


  But presidential politics never slumber. And even Trump savors dangling the prospect of a Vance-Rubio faceoff to become his heir.


  Both men insist they are not running for president. That’s a no-brainer, because the incumbent is always watching.


  What was more striking about this early round of “The Apprentice: 2028” is what Rubio and Vance did not do.


  Leavitt’s briefings often begin with a tirade against reporters. When Trump looms over the podium, his “weave” boils with personal grievances. Neither Vance nor Rubio emulated the chest-beating of Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. And while both were deferential to Trump, neither acted out for the boss like FBI chief Kash Patel or former Attorney General Pam Bondi in their Capitol Hill circus acts.


  Both Vance and Rubio came across as serious people — a rarity in a performative administration.


  Both men were respectful to reporters and seemed to relish issues over insults. Both were intellectually sharp, well-briefed and radiating self-confidence. Each spoke in eloquent paragraphs.


  Vance, a Yale Law graduate, piled up evidence to build forensic arguments. Rubio, for his part, conjured the crescendos of rhetoric that convinced many pundits he was the next president before Trump barged into the 2016 White House race.


  Close your eyes, and it would be easy to imagine either man speaking from the same spot in a few years as commander in chief.


  America has been ruled by 1940s babies — Trump and Joe Biden — for nearly a decade. The spectacle of younger pretenders acting out the role underscored that a nation that often seeks out youth and promise in election years has recently looked back to an older generation to lead it.


  Vance and Rubio both subtly nodded at their relative youth. Rubio refused to divulge his DJ name. Vance played the young-dad card, saying he’d ask Leavitt to step in for him when his wife Usha gives birth to their fourth child in July. And he insisted his 40-something eyes weren’t up to reading a reporter seating chart. He doth protest too much.


  Both were far better spokesmen for Trump’s policies than the president himself. Vance, not for the first time, showed he understands that denying that many Americans are hurting amid an affordability crisis is bad politics. “We are very aware that because of what’s going on in the Middle East, gas prices have gone up, and a lot of Americans are struggling because of that.”


  The vice president also came up with a more coherent explanation of Trump’s warnings on Iran’s nuclear program than the president has managed. If Iran got a nuke, then nations across the Gulf and elsewhere would also want one, he said. “If you have every country in the world scrambling to try to get a nuclear weapon, it would make us all much less safe.”


  Vance didn’t have receipts showing claims Iran was at that threshold before the war. But if Trump had said something similar before launching his onslaught, he might not have lost the public.


  Rubio painstakingly explained Trump’s “Project Freedom” — a plan to safeguard ships transiting the Strait of Hormuz. Unfortunately for him, he was standing on the trap door under every Trump appointee who makes a public statement. Within hours, the president had performed his latest TACO (Trump Always Chickens Out) and put the operation on hold.


  But neither Vance nor Rubio were able to project the feral dominance with which the president fills rooms. At times, they seemed like rookies trying to corral the wild press pack that emerged alongside Trump’s insurgent politics. “I don’t know many damn outlets here, I don’t know who you all are,” said Rubio. Vance had similar thoughts. “Marco is right, this is really chaos.”


  Ultimately, with their energetic yet restrained demeanors, Vance and Rubio offered a glimpse of a more conventional style of politics lost in Trump’s cacophony. They were a reminder that their boss is an aberration from generations of presidential decorum.  The question for his successors will be whether that disruptive brand is a fit for the future.


  Rubio told Vanity Fair last year that if Vance ran in 2028, he’d be the nominee and he’d support him. So the former Florida’s potential presidential dreams might depend on a GOP defeat in two years and his own potential campaign in 2032.


  Vance, meanwhile, insisted Tuesday, “I’m not a potential future candidate. I’m a vice president, and I really like my job.”


  But everything can change fast in politics.


  So what would a Rubio vs. Vance campaign look like?


  Vance knows the MAGA base. He also showed signs he’s beginning to augment it with one of his own. He rebuked liberals who failed to condemn the assassination of his friend Charlie Kirk. He said no one should be afraid to defend their culture against immigrants when endorsing a march of far-right nationalist activists in London. And he placed US fundamental rights, including to religious freedom, in a distinctly Christian context: “You can’t force anybody to a pathway to God,” Vance said. “They have to, through their own free will, find God themselves.”


  Rubio’s appearance was more confined to foreign policy — in keeping with his two simultaneous jobs as national security adviser and secretary of state. But given a political opening by a reporter’s question, he nailed it.


  “My hope for America is what it’s always been,” he said, as Candidate Rubio roared out of its post-2016 hibernation. “I think it’s a hope I hope we all share. We want it to continue to be the place where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything. Where you’re not limited by the circumstances of your birth, by the color of your skin, by your ethnicity.”


  Soon, his peroration appeared in full as a vertical video on his social media account. His image makers were careful to liberally splice it with videos of Trump, but the swelling music and “West Wing” vibes left no one guessing.


  Rubio is a different political animal a decade into becoming MAGA compatible. But his comments offered the tantalizing possibility that he’s not fully disowned a more aspirational, positive and lyrical version of conservatism that might one day provide an antidote to scorched-earth Trumpism.


  Still, Vance and Rubio cannot control their futures. For all their political skills, they are selling positions that are increasingly out of step with most Americans.


  If either makes it to a presidential debate stage, they will be accused by a Democratic nominee of being complicit in what critics see as the most corrupt, incompetent and authoritarian administration in modern US history.


  And in the pursuit of power, now and in the future, both contenders for Trump’s throne have made compromises that come with a side dish of hypocrisy.


  In the end, given Trump’s huge unpopularity and the grave crises threatening to tank his second term, the question for Rubio and Vance may not be which of them will be Trump’s heir, but whether his political legacy is worth inheriting.



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

Attorneys for Tennessee inmate worry state could use expired drugs for lethal injection


  By Associated Press


Updated: 
        8:10 PM EDT, Wed May 20, 2026
    

  Source: AP


  Attorneys for a Tennessee death row inmate say they are concerned the state may be planning to use expired lethal injection drugs at his execution on Thursday, a growing concern across the country as states work to keep most information about their drugs secret.


  Tony Carruthers’ attorneys twice asked the Tennessee Department of Correction last month whether it had secured the appropriate drugs for his execution date and for assurance the drugs had not expired.


  Assistant Attorney General John W. Ayers’ response did not directly answer but said the department will comply with its lethal injection protocol — which includes regular inventory of the drugs to monitor expiration dates.


  Carruthers, 57, was sentenced to death after being found guilty of the 1994 kidnappings and murders of Marcellos Anderson, his mother Delois Anderson, and Frederick Tucker.


  The Tennessee Department of Correction declined to answer on Wednesday when asked by The Associated Press whether the drugs they plan to use to kill Carruthers are expired. Gov. Bill Lee’s office did not immediately respond to a similar inquiry.


  Federal Public Defender Amy Harwell said in an email that expiration dates reflect when a drug can no longer be safely relied upon to obtain the desired result.


  “In the execution context, this may mean a slow, lingering death without a reliable loss of consciousness, as the body painfully and fitfully shuts down,” Harwell wrote.


  Public opposition to executions has made it difficult for prisons to obtain execution drugs, among the lingering issues for those who use lethal injection. Some states have been forced to speed up executions or stop them entirely due to expiration dates on drugs.


  In South Carolina, executions were on hold for 12 years while the state struggled to obtain drugs. They were eventually able to get them only after the state passed a shield law that would keep the identity of the supplier secret.


  Tennessee has argued in court that its shield extends to revealing expiration dates. Just before the December execution of Harold Nichols, Tennessee Deputy Attorney General Cody Brandon offered instead to provide a declaration “attesting that the chemicals to be used in Mr. Nichols’ execution will not expire before his execution and have not expired,” according to a transcript of the proceedings.


  “The fact that TDOC was willing to provide such assurances to Mr. Nichols, but not Mr. Carruthers, raises serious concerns that TDOC is, in fact, intending to use expired drugs,” Harwell wrote in a May 18 follow-up to Ayers’ letter.


  In 2017, Arkansas’ then-Gov. Asa Hutchinson issued death warrants for eight prisoners on the state’s death row in an effort to beat the clock on a batch of lethal injection drugs that were set to expire. The state executed four of the men, but four others were granted stays.


  Arkansas has not had any executions since then, in part because of the difficulty in obtaining drugs.


  A group of Texas inmates in 2023 unsuccessfully tried to stop the state from using drugs they alleged were expired and unsafe. Prison officials denied their claims and said the state’s drug supply was safe.


  Attorneys for Idaho’s death row inmates raised similar concerns in 2024, when the state planned to take a second try at executing Thomas Creech after the first attempt was botched.


  The Federal Defender Services of Idaho told a federal judge that prison officials apparently failed to even check the expiration date of the execution drugs before obtaining a death warrant for Creech in October 2024. Nine days later, the drugs were returned to the supplier because they were expired, according to court documents. A new Idaho law has changed the state’s primary execution to firing squad in part because of the difficulty of getting lethal injection drugs.


  Tennessee has a history of problems with its execution drugs. In 2022, Oscar Smith came within minutes of being executed before Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee issued a surprise reprieve that revealed the state’s lethal injection drugs were not being properly tested for purity and potency. Executions were on hold for two years to allow for an independent investigation into the problems.


  The state attorney general’s office was also forced to concede in court that two of the people most responsible for overseeing Tennessee’s lethal injection drugs at the time “ incorrectly testified ” under oath that officials were testing the chemicals as required.


  Tennessee released a new lethal injection process in December 2024, and restarted executions in 2025. Several death row inmates have sued over the new protocols, arguing that the Correction Department did not follow the recommendations from the investigation.


  Meanwhile, the new process has not been completely smooth. When Byron Black was executed by lethal injection in August, he said he was “hurting so bad.” Prison officials have offered no explanation for what might have caused the pain.



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

Jalen Brunson leads Knicks on incredible 22-point 4th quarter comeback to defeat Cavaliers in Game 1


  By Associated Press


Updated: 
        1:09 AM EDT, Wed May 20, 2026
    

  Source: AP


  Jalen Brunson sparked one of the NBA’s greatest postseason comebacks, a rally from a 22-point deficit in the fourth quarter, and finished with 38 points as New York beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 115-104 in overtime on Tuesday night in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals.


  After a record-setting run through the first two rounds, the Knicks were going nowhere for 40 minutes against the Cavs, trailing 93-71 with 7:52 to play. But Brunson relentlessly attacked James Harden to spark an 18-1 run that made it a ballgame, and he tied it at 101-all on a basket with 19 seconds remaining in regulation.


  Before that, Brunson said the message for the Knicks was just to finish strong so they would have momentum of Game 2, even if they lost the opener.


  “Just keep fighting,” he said. “Keep chipping away. We’re not going to get it back in one possession.”


  The Knicks then opened overtime with a 9-0 run as a delirious crowd in Madison Square Garden danced and screamed in the aisles. The Knicks moved within three wins of their first NBA Finals appearance since 1999.


  Mikal Bridges added 18 points and three Knicks scored 13, including OG Anunoby, who came on late after struggling most of the way in his return after missing two games with a strained right hamstring.


  Donovan Mitchell scored 29 points for the Cavaliers, who seemed well on their way to a third straight road win before their late collapse. The Knicks outscored them 44-11 after their 93-71 lead.


  “We played great basketball tonight for three quarters. Unfortunately, the fourth quarter — they dominated us in the fourth quarter,” Cavs coach Kenny Atkinson said.


  The Knicks won their eighth straight game and will host Game 2 on Thursday.


  The Knicks had outscored Atlanta and Philadelphia by a combined 194 points, the largest margin ever through a team’s first 10 postseason games. But after not playing since May 10, when they finished their second-round sweep of the 76ers, the Knicks misfired most of the night, looking like the rust hurt more than the rest helped.


  They were 4 for 23 on 3-pointers through three quarters and then had a horrible start to the fourth. But a year after coughing up a 14-point lead in the final minutes of regulation and losing to Indiana in OT in Game 1 of the conference finals on their home court, the Knicks found their offense just in time.


  “But it was our defense that has always been special in these playoffs and that has carried us in this playoffs, that showed up in the fourth quarter and in overtime,” Karl-Anthony Towns said. “It allowed us to be sitting here with a win against a really great team.”


  The only bigger fourth-quarter playoff comeback in the last 30 years was when the Clippers rallied from 24 down to beat Memphis in Game 1 in 2012.


  “That can’t happen. But it did,” Mitchell said. “We play in two days. We can’t sit here and let it kill our momentum, kill what we’ve been doing. It’s not a good loss.”


  The Knicks came from 20 points behind three times last year in the postseason. Those were their largest comebacks on record since 1969-70, when they won their first of two NBA titles.


  Evan Mobley had 15 points and 14 rebounds for the Cavs. Harden also scored 15 points, but was just 1 for 8 on 3-pointers and had more turnovers (six) than field goals (five).



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

American passenger on hantavirus-hit cruise feels ‘blindsided’ and ‘misled’ by new quarantine orders


  By Brenda Goodman, Francesca Giuliani Hoffman, CNN


Updated: 
        10:12 PM EDT, Tue May 19, 2026
    

  Source: CNN


  An American passenger who was exposed to the Andes strain of hantavirus on the cruise ship HV Hondius said he feels “blindsided” and “misled” by new orders that require staying at the National Quarantine Center in Nebraska under federal supervision.


  At least two passengers were formally ordered to stay in quarantine in Nebraska after they pushed to leave. The others were told that if they did not voluntarily stay, they would also be ordered to remain. The order, which was reviewed by CNN, was signed by Dr. Jay Bhattacharya, who is leading both the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the US National Institutes of Health.


  Public health officials have repeatedly stressed that the risk to the public from the Andes hantavirus is low. But the outbreak has tested the Trump administration’s fidelity to the principles of the medical freedom movement, which has been championed by US Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and his deputies. The medical freedom movement resists government-imposed public health measures such as vaccine mandates and masking requirements.


Bhattacharya is a co-author of the Great Barrington Declaration, which was written in protest of “damaging physical and mental health impacts” of the government’s lockdown policies during the Covid-19 pandemic.


  “This is another way to sow mistrust in public health,” wrote Dr. Ali S. Khan, dean of the school of public health at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, on social media. “Inconsistent with numerous hantavirus cruise ship passengers in the US who are home monitored without a mandatory order.”


  Passengers who disembarked from the Hondius in April and flew back to the US before the outbreak was identified and the risk was known are being monitored by state and local public health departments in their homes.


  In news briefings last week, CDC officials said they were assessing passengers and were working with state and local health departments to allow them to quarantine at home. The CDC issued guidelines to assist those health departments in monitoring people who were exposed to the virus, including twice-daily in-person visits.


  Until Sunday night, some passengers expected to be allowed to return home as early as this week to finish the remainder of the 42 days in quarantine. Several had already been in touch with their state and local health departments, which would have been in charge of monitoring them.


  One passenger, who asked not to be identified out of fear his family could be harassed, said his local health department had drawn up a quarantine order that would have allowed him to live in a guest house on his parents’ property. He had been expecting to leave Nebraska as early as Tuesday.


  “It wasn’t even a guideline. It was a legal order,” the passenger said of the local health department’s order. “I would not have objected to that, but I just want to be at home.”


  He said none of the passengers wants to endanger others, but he plans to challenge the new order keeping him in Nebraska.


  “No one here is asking to be released from quarantine,” he told CNN. “We are asking for the less restrictive alternative of a quarantine at home. That is what everyone was planning until this bombshell on Sunday.”


  On a hastily arranged video call Sunday, the 18 passengers staying at the National Quarantine Center were told by Dr. David Fitter, who is leading the CDC’s response to the hantavirus outbreak, and Dr. Denis Fitzgerald from the Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response, that they will have to remain at the facility until at least May 31.


  “We were blindsided by that,” the passenger said. The health department contact he was working with in his home county seemed to be unaware of the change in strategy, he said, as were the CDC staff working with the passengers in the quarantine unit.


  Another person in quarantine said he expected some changes as more new cases were confirmed among passengers from other countries.


  “I was a bit disappointed, and I was taken off-guard, but I wasn’t totally surprised,” said Dr. Stephen Kornfeld, a retired oncologist from Bend, Oregon, who took over caring for passengers after the ship doctor caught hantavirus. Kornfeld is now in quarantine with the other American passengers in Nebraska.


  On the call Sunday, the Americans at the National Quarantine Center were told that the strategy had shifted because three passengers – from Spain, France and Canada – had tested positive after they’d gotten off the ship on May 10.


  “What’s happening in the world around us does have an impact on decision-making, and when I knew that a Canadian … was diagnosed with hanta, I figured that was going to have an impact,” Kornfeld said, “and I think that did have an impact in the timing of our meeting.”


  That answer wasn’t satisfying to everyone, the other passenger said. “We always knew more people could come down with the disease.”


  “We think it’s clear that it was a PR decision,” he said. “We understand that CDC has gotten blowback for the slow response, their poor communication to the public, and there’s a lot of public alarmism and fear about the disease.”


  In a statement Tuesday, the CDC said it “will continue to coordinate with state and local health authorities as we work together to come up with the best solutions to protect the health and safety of these passengers.”


  The passenger said that although some people had already planned to spend all 42 days in the National Quarantine Unit, he and others who wanted to go home are angry.


  “I don’t see why I can’t be home.  If I’m home, I have my stuff. I can go outside in my yard. Here, I’m locked in a little room. I can’t go outside.  Everything I do has to be through these doctors at the front desk,” the passenger said.  “I don’t want to be incarcerated.”


  At least one infectious disease expert agreed.


  “They should remained quarantined, but I don’t see why they couldn’t be flown in a special airplane and then quarantined at home,” said Dr. Peter Hotez, who is director of vaccine development at Texas Children’s Hospital. “I would think that would be quite reasonable.”



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

Barney Frank, liberal icon who regulated a ‘too big’ financial industry, dies at 86


  By Michael Williams, Jeanne Sahadi, CNN


Updated: 
        12:32 PM EDT, Wed May 20, 2026
    

  Source: CNN


  Barney Frank, the barrier-breaking former Massachusetts congressman who helped draft reforms that sought to rein in an unruly financial industry in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis, has died. He was 86.


  His sister Doris Breay confirmed his death to CNN, saying, “he was a wonderful brother. I was lucky to be his sister. I will miss him.”


  Frank entered hospice care earlier this year where he underwent treatment for congestive heart failure, according to media reports.


  The former congressman built a reputation on Capitol Hill for being an outspoken progressive stalwart. He was also the first member of Congress to voluntarily come out as gay. Frank’s decision to publicly disclose his sexuality in 1987 made him the most prominent gay man in Washington during the height of the AIDS epidemic.


  While many thought it could be a political career-ender at the time, Frank would later say he regretted he did not come out sooner.


  “I am a much better openly gay man than I was a closeted one,” he told Men’s Journal in a 2017 interview.


  Frank advocated for LGBTQ causes throughout his career and was instrumental in helping repeal the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy prohibiting gay servicemembers from openly serving in the military. In 2012, he became the first sitting member of Congress to marry a partner of the same sex while in office.


  Legislatively, he made arguably his biggest mark in the world of finance. He became the ranking member of the House Financial Services Committee in 2003, and in 2007, became the committee’s chairman. His position put him at the center of the congressional response to the subprime mortgage crisis that led to the greatest global financial meltdown since the Great Depression. Frank pushed for greater regulation of banks and stronger consumer protections to avoid a repeat of the debacle.


  He also backed the federal bailout of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which included a line of credit the government sponsored entities could tap, if needed.


  “We are putting the money there … saying we know that we’re taking steps so that they’re not going to face this problem in the future,” Frank told CNN in mid-July 2008.


  “Fannie and Freddie suffered not from their own decisions, but from the bad mortgage decisions that have been made throughout the economy. We’re not going to have those in the future. So, it is not simply hoping, it is taking action to make it less likely that they’ll be the problem,” he said.


  Frank was a chief architect of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which President Barack Obama signed into law in 2010.


  Dodd-Frank established the framework for banking regulation and consumer protection as we know them today. The law’s aim was to introduce greater oversight of financial institutions, especially those judged to be “too big to fail.” It established new liquidity requirements and stress tests for banks; as well as the Volcker Rule, which limits banks’ ability to make risky investments with customer deposits.


  Dodd-Frank also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which was charged with preventing financial abuse and standing up for consumers in the financial sector.


  Since then, many Dodd-Frank provisions have been challenged in court and in Congress, and Republicans have sought to roll back many financial services regulations, including dismantling the CFPB.


  With a larger-than-life personality, Frank’s sharp tongue and sarcastic wit made him sought after by journalists and, even after his retirement from Congress in 2013, a regular on the political talk show circuit. His autobiography was published in 2015, and another book, “The Hard Path to Unity: Why We Must Reform the Left to Rescue Democracy,” is scheduled to be released later this year.


  His frequent TV appearances made Frank a recognizable figure in American politics, and he continued to be vocal well into his 80s.


  In a recent interview on CNN, Frank had criticized the Democratic Party for not being strategic with their messaging on social issues and for not focusing on more centrist positions.


  He told CNN’s Jake Tapper progressives “make a mistake by taking the most controversial parts of the agenda and turning them into litmus tests.”


  Tributes poured in for the former congressman after his death. Former Rep. Joe Kennedy III said he had known he was filling “extraordinarily big shoes” when he took over as congressman for Massachusetts’ 4th district in 2013, calling Frank “one of the great public servants of our time.”


  Human Rights Campaign President Kelley Robinson said Frank was a “trailblazer.”


  “At a time when being openly gay in public service could cost you everything, he chose visibility,” Robinson said.


  Former Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, who was the first openly gay Cabinet secretary, said he was not sure he would have “had the chance to serve if Barney Frank hadn’t demonstrated that courage, commitment, and skill can matter more than others’ imagination about what voters are ‘ready’ for.”


CNN’s Kaanita Iyer and Lauren Chadwick contributed to this report.


This story has been updated with additional information.



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

These ‘Survivor’ contestants won a million dollars. Here’s how they spent it.


  By Sandra Gonzalez, Sara Smart, CNN


Updated: 
        7:16 AM EDT, Thu May 21, 2026
    

  Source: CNN


  Being a “Survivor” winner means joining a strange club of hyper-ambitious humans, bound by both the surreal experience of reality television fame and knowing what it feels like to suddenly come into a good chunk of cash.


  When the show’s 50th season concluded on Wednesday, winner Aubry Bracco walked away with $2 million — a surprise doubled pot courtesy of Internet sensation and superfan Mr. Beast.


  Before this year, the $1 million prize money may not have technically kept up with inflation, but an informal poll of winners shows whether you won in early seasons or later ones, the real value of victory sometimes does not come from the money at all.


  Take, for instance, Season 12 winner Aras Baskauskas, who spent 39 days starving and sleep-deprived off the coast of Panama to earn his million at the age of 24 and used it to start a hat business, through which he learned “how not to succeed in business.” Five years after he won, he was $50,000 in debt.


  The married father, who with his wife owns successful sustainable clothing company Christy Dawn, likes to say he spent his prize money on a very expensive, non-traditional education.


  “By the time you’ve opened the aperture wide enough to really start to enjoy the riches, there’s nothing left,” he said. “It’s a fascinating experience at that age.”


  But he’s zen about it now and tries to share that feeling with other winners and castoffs alike, recently doing so in a text exchange with Season 50 contestant and five-time player Ozzy Lusth, whose heart-led game play resulted in his torch getting snuffed in a recent episode.


  “There’s some idea that having a million dollars improves your life,” Baskauskas said. It doesn’t. “It just changes it. And whatever problems you’re gonna find yourself in, you’ll find them with or without that money.”


  Here’s more of what winners told CNN when asked how they spent their prize money.


  After Zohn won “Survivor: Africa” in 2001, he was approached by two former teammates from Zimbabwean football club Highlanders FC about starting a charity that later became Grassroot Soccer, which for the last two decades has helped educate teens worldwide on issues like HIV prevention and mental health through the sport.


  “I was all in and donated the funds to help co-found the organization,” Zohn said. “Of course I splurged a little bit! I bought both my brothers a car, took my mom on vacation and bought myself a pair of those Bose noise reduction headphones.”


  “Survivor” changed his life for many reasons, “and it wasn’t just about the money,” he said.


  “It gave me lifelong friends, introduced me to a community I love being a part of and it gave me the opportunity to jumpstart something I was truly passionate about, Grassroot Soccer.”


  “I had one big splurge and that was I spent 10 grand on getting my dog Hondo a new hip. He had hip dysplasia, and I knew he needed it but couldn’t justify spending that much money. And that was my motivation for my final immunity challenge, ‘Gosh, if I win this, I could go get Hondo a new hip.’ So as soon as I won, I took him down to Kansas State University, they gave him a new hip and he lived 14 wonderful years. Best money spent.”


  Another benevolent winner, Cole took some of his winnings and started the Perthes Kids Foundation, which helps children with Legg-Calvé-Perthes Disease, a degenerative hip bone disorder. He also started the SMART Tire Company that in 2023 was featured in TIME’s Best Inventions for its airless bicycle wheel.


  He also gave money to family, traveled to over 60 countries and “invested wisely,” he said via email.


  “I guess one weird and crazy thing I bought was ONE shot of Macallan 56 at the top of the Burj Al Arab in Dubai on my birthday soon after my win (look up the price!)! I always say I didn’t buy it for the taste, I bought it for the story! That story, and everything that happened that day, has definitely paid for itself tenfold!”


  “I traveled the world and started a toy making business!”


  “I opened a high-end boutique wellness center in Santa Monica. We had trampoline classes, boxing, Pilates and massage.”


  Crowley’s “Survivor” winnings went to two things, he said, “neither of which involved yachts, sports cars, or a private island, much to the disappointment of anyone who thinks reality TV money turns you into Scrooge McDuck.”


  First, there was the honeymoon. Immediately after his win, a reporter asked him about his plans for his prize, and, in his words, “I panicked.” He blurted out “the one thing that made me sound like a decent human being”: He was taking his wife Peggy on a honeymoon 28 years in the making. The answer, he joked, was “basically the cheat code for good press.” They ended up going to Australia and New Zealand.


  He also built Maine Forest Yurts, a campground just west of L.L. Bean in Durham, Maine.


  “Peggy and I have a love for being outdoors and we wanted to share it with others, so we thought a yurt campground would be perfect,” Crowley wrote. “It’s great for anyone with an adventurous spirit, and a love for being in nature. Life is good!”


  “Right after ‘Survivor,’ my husband Bryan and I bought our first fixer-upper and used the prize money to renovate it. That house ended up being the thing that really jumpstarted my career in design and home renovation.”


  Stapley said she used her winnings much like how she played the game — “cautiously, pragmatically, and definitely not flashy.” She invested nearly 100% of it for retirement and her daughter’s college education.


  “We continued to live in the same house and I continued to drive the same Honda Civic for another 10 years,” she said. “Essentially, the win just granted us a freedom of a bit more time and flexibility. We are who we are. And wanted to remain grounded in that.”


  “Soon after winning, I went through a short-lived ‘yo-yo’ phase where I spent an inordinate amount of money on a limited-edition yo-yo. I lost it within a week – a valuable cautionary tale that inspired me to be wiser with my winnings.”


  “Test drove a Porsche, bought a Subaru and gambled a lot! Still have the Subaru.”


  “I was young and had no idea what to do with the money. I bought a laptop, interviewed like 10 financial advisors, and invested the whole thing.”


  One thing the “Survivor” winners can be sure their money will go towards is taxes. And that’s the case for Wilson, who told CNN that after he paid about $400,000 in taxes from his winnings he bought a small house, a truck and an engagement ring.


  “I used my prize money to freeze my eggs.”


  Oketch said she was “a bit pragmatic” with her money, from what was left of it after taxes. Among the things she did was: tithed 10% to her church, paid for her parents 30th anniversary trip to the Bahamas, flew to Australia in a business class seat and paid for her wedding and honeymoon. The rest she put in savings and investments.


  Gabler and his wife decided prior to the show that if he won, he’d donate the entire one-million-dollar prize to veterans. And that’s exactly what he did.


  “While I never had the honor of serving, it was my honor to serve those who served us. I’m grateful to have been able to play on my favorite show and humbled by the win,” Gabler said.


  Gabler donated his winnings to 25 organizations that help veterans and first responders. “To be able to pay it forward was extra special. A life of service is a life well lived,” Gabler said.


  The first treat Arocho bought himself was a king-size bed. “I didn’t need a bed. I loved my bed. But my husband wanted a king-size bed. So, we went and got the best one. After sleeping on the ground for a month, I think it was a treat that made sense!” Arocho said.


  “I used it exactly how I said I would, actually! I paid the taxes, started my family by having two sweet little boys that are my entire world, bought a house in the ‘burbs and invested the rest to be able to retire someday.”


  LaMont paid off all her student loans, contributed to her nieces’ and nephews’ 529 education savings plans, quit her corporate job, co-founded a puzzle gaming company and traveled with her husband Derek.


  “My wife is a massive Taylor Swift fan, and we got married roughly a month and a half after Survivor 48 wrapped up filming. So as a surprise wedding gift, I bought her tickets to the second-to-last Eras Tour concert in Toronto!”


  Louie put most of her prize money into investments and a “good chunk” into her travel fund. “My boyfriend and I went on a luxe trip to Thailand, and we have a few other adventures coming up!” Louie said. She also bought a couch for their new place and a Cartier watch, which she said was a dream purchase. “My watch feels like my own personal trophy I get to have on me at all times,” she wrote.


Michael Besozzi, Julie In, Lizzie Jury and Lindsey Knight from CNN’s Editorial Research team contributed to this report.

Michael Besozzi, Julie In, Lizzie Jury and Lindsey Knight from CNN’s Editorial Research team contributed to this report.


      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

How bushmeat, burial rites and disinformation make the DRC an Ebola hotspot


  By Nimi Princewill, CNN


Updated: 
        10:55 AM EDT, Thu May 21, 2026
    

  Source: CNN


  In rural Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), a lethal Ebola strain has torn through local communities – claiming over 100 lives and triggering a global health emergency.


  The virus was first discovered in the DRC in 1976, and remains an enduring threat. The central African nation has seen 17 outbreaks, more than any other country – a severe outbreak between 2018 and 2020 left 2,299 people dead.


  Ebola, an often fatal virus that causes severe symptoms, including high fever and both internal and external bleeding, originates in wildlife. It is transmitted to humans through close contact with the blood or fluids of infected forest animals, such as “fruit bats, porcupines and non-human primates” like monkeys, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).


  Once the virus enters a community, it spreads quickly between people through direct contact with bodily fluids or contaminated surfaces.


  The current outbreak is driven by the Bundibugyo strain, a rare form of Ebola. Unlike the more common Zaire strain of the virus, the Bundibugyo variant currently lacks any approved vaccines or treatments.


  Scientists believe humans first contracted Ebola by hunting, handling, or eating infected wild animals, collectively known as bushmeat. Such food – particularly bats, monkeys, grasscutters and antelopes – remains popular in the DRC, just one reason why Ebola remains a danger today.


  The recurring outbreaks in the DRC are linked to its geography. Vast, dense forests cover more than 60% of the country’s landmass (over 150 million hectares), serving as a natural breeding ground for Ebola.


  For many rural residents in the Congo Basin – the world’s second-largest rainforest – where bushmeat provides up to 80% of local protein intake, hunting wild meat is a matter of survival, not preference.


  However, this vital food source serves as the primary gateway for deadly animal-to-human virus spillovers, according to Eteni Longondo, a former minister of public health in the DRC.


  Longondo told CNN that regulating hunting in the country’s dense forests and preventing communities from consuming wildlife, particularly jungle carcasses, remains a significant challenge for health officials.


  “It starts from the forest, and we don’t have any control there,” he said, noting that traditional hunting habits cannot be changed overnight.


  “You cannot tell people to stop with their culture, and then they just stop right away. They are still eating them (wild meat) because they don’t have another alternative.”


  The DRC is mineral rich but over 80% of its 100 million citizens live in extreme poverty. The situation is particularly grim in the east, where an active armed rebellion has allowed a powerful rebel coalition to seize vast territories, displacing millions and plunging the region into a severe food crisis.


  On Thursday, the rebels confirmed an Ebola case in Bukavu, a city under their control in South Kivu province. They reported that the patient, a 28-year-old, had died and was buried safely. Additionally, the rebels announced that a separate case of Ebola was identified in Goma, the largest city in eastern DRC, which they also occupy.


  The current Ebola outbreak primarily affects the eastern Ituri Province, located on the northeastern edge of the Congo Basin. According to WHO, the majority of cases are concentrated in the provincial capital of Bunia and the mining towns of Mongwalu and Rwampara.


  The first suspected case involved a healthcare worker whose symptoms began on April 24 and who later died at a medical facility in Bunia, WHO reported. By May 5, the organization was notified of an “unidentified illness” associated with high mortality rates in the province. After an inquiry by a “rapid response team” on May 13, the outbreak was identified as the Bundibugyo virus on May 15.


  The virus has also reached neighboring Uganda, where health officials confirmed two laboratory-verified cases, including one death, in the capital city of Kampala. Both cases involved individuals who had traveled separately from the DRC, with no link between them, WHO stated.


  “People are panicking,” said Valet Chebujongo, a community mobilizer based in Bunia. However, he told CNN the terror stems less from the virus itself but from a wave of misinformation and superstition, both of which fuel the virus’ spread and undermine local containment efforts.


  “In Mongwalu, people are saying that there is a circulating (phantom) coffin that brings instant death by merely seeing it,” he said, explaining that rumors such as this are causing some to reject medical aid in favor of prayer, magic and traditional practices.


  Compounding the crisis, Chebujongo noted that a local funeral custom involving mourners touching the deceased may have contributed to the rise of infections.


  Baraka Nakashenyi, a resident of hard-hit Mongwalu, confirmed that this practice remains common despite the risks.


  “Touching (the corpse) for the last time” is considered “the final farewell” for grieving relatives, Nakashenyi explained.


  Many others are now “afraid to consume smoked bushmeat regardless of its origin,” Junior Kambale Bawili, another Bunia resident, said. Bawili told CNN that it was common to find specialized restaurants serving wild meat.


  The rapid spread of the virus has caused international alarm.


  Jeremy Konyndyk, who previously headed Covid-19 and disaster response efforts at the US Agency for International Development (USAID), suggested that “multiple generations of transmission” must “have already gone undetected” before the outbreak was officially confirmed, describing this as “a big, big problem.”


  WHO warned that the rapidly spreading Bundibugyo Ebola strain “warrants serious concern” as the death toll rose to at least 139 deaths on Wednesday with nearly 600 suspected cases. However, the organization downplayed fears of global spread, stating that the risk of transmission is higher at the national and regional levels.


  In response to the threat of transmission, the United States has imposed emergency travel restrictions on non-US arrivals from affected countries and South Sudan. Additionally, an infected American who tested positive for the virus in the DRC was flown to Germany for medical care.


  Drawing from decades of refining its containment strategies, the DRC’s health ministry asserted that the country has “proven expertise” in managing Ebola.


  “Declared sixteen times, conquered sixteen times. The 17th will be no different,” the ministry posted on X, stating their resilience.


  However, former health minister Longondo offered a bleak timeline for containing the disease, citing his own experience managing a past outbreak that lasted for weeks.


  “The outbreak will be around for a few months,” he told CNN.



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

‘This is long overdue’: Jan. 6 rioters and election deniers celebrate Trump’s $1.8 billion compensation fund


  By Marshall Cohen, Holmes Lybrand, Donie O'Sullivan, CNN


Updated: 
        10:29 AM EDT, Thu May 21, 2026
    

  Source: CNN


  Supporters of President Donald Trump who tried to overturn the 2020 election are among those eager to potentially cash in from the $1.8 billion compensation fund for people the Trump administration believes were victims of government “weaponization and lawfare.”


  In interviews with CNN, convicted US Capitol rioters from January 6, 2021, fake electors and prominent election deniers said they’re hoping to tap the massive fund, which they think is long overdue.


  “I can’t even find a job answering the phone at a motorcycle dealership,” said convicted January 6 rioter Dominic Box, who spent 1.5 years in jail awaiting trial and was later pardoned by Trump. “I can’t find a way to support myself right now. I lost my career. I look forward to financial compensation. I need it. This will be a welcome relief.”


  MyPillow CEO Mike Lindell told CNN he believes his company lost $400 million due to what he views as government weaponization in the aftermath of the 2020 election. He was perhaps the loudest promoter of baseless voter-fraud claims – drawing boycotts from businesses, defamation lawsuits and even FBI scrutiny.


  “I would say we were the number-one company in the world hurt by our own government,” said Lindell.


  A lawyer for One America News, the pro-Trump channel that promoted false 2020 vote-rigging claims, also confirmed to CNN that the company is “seriously considering pursuing rights under this fund.” OAN was later dropped by most large cable providers and also settled multiple 2020-related defamation lawsuits.


  Top Trump administration officials, including Vice President JD Vance and acting Attorney General Todd Blanche, have dodged questions over whether people convicted of January 6-related crimes, including people who assaulted police, should be awarded any of the funds.


  “Anybody can apply,” Blanche told lawmakers during a budget hearing Tuesday, noting that even people who stormed the Capitol can submit claims that will be reviewed by a five-member commission that he’ll appoint.


  The fund is open to a much broader swath of Trump allies, far beyond the 2020 election. Potential recipients could include people who were scrutinized during special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, Trump administration officials who were entangled in Trump-Ukraine impeachment in 2019, and others.


  The first known potential claimant, Trump adviser Michael Caputo, was investigated by Mueller in part because of his connections to Russian officials. He was never charged and is seeking $2.7 million in restitution because, he said, the probes cost him and his family, financially and beyond.


  Former FBI Director James Comey joked on CNN that he may also have a claim to file, given that the Trump administration tried and failed in prosecuting him for allegedly lying to Congress and now filed new charges alleging that a picture of seashells on the beach spelling out “86 47” constituted a threat against Trump.


  “It’s to compensate people who’ve been targeted by the Justice Department for, they say personal, political, or ideological reasons,” Comey told CNN’s Jake Tapper. “So, I’m guessing I’ll be in line. I hope I’ll be ahead of those who savagely beat police officers and sacked the Capitol.”


  The largest group of potential “victims” are the nearly 1,600 people charged in connection with the January 6 insurrection at the US Capitol.


  They all already received clemency from Trump, in the form of mass pardons and commutations, which freed hundreds of convicts from prison and ended pending prosecutions. But the new Trump fund delivers on a key goal that many in the January 6 community have clamored for: Restitution.


  “This is long overdue,” Box said. “It’s not okay for hardworking, average Americans to be chewed up and destroyed as a collective boogeyman.”


  Box was convicted in 2024 on all charges, including felonies, but he wasn’t accused of violence at the Capitol. After Trump granted mass pardons in 2025, the Justice Department dismissed Box’s case, before sentencing.


  Box, a college graduate who lives in Georgia, said he worked as a car salesman before January 6 but struggled to find work after the insurrection.


  “The car market exploded during Covid,” Box said. “Because of my inability to work in a forward-facing role, I wasn’t able to acquire any of that income. I knew guys who typically made $40,000 a year, and then got $150,000 to $200,000.”


  Attorneys for former Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio, who received the longest sentence for a January 6 defendant, told CNN he intends to apply for the fund.


  One of the most recognizable faces from January 6 said he isn’t planning on tapping the fund.


Jacob Chansley, better known as the “QAnon Shaman,” told CNN this week he hopes to be compensated through a $40 trillion lawsuit he brought against Trump, alleging all kinds of government conspiracies. A judge dismissed the case last year. But Chansley, who is representing himself, re-filed the longshot case.


  Chansley told CNN last year that he had broken with Trump over the president’s handling of the scandal surrounding sex offender Jeffrey Epstein.


  Two attorneys who represented members of the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers who were charged and convicted of conspiring to change the 2020 election results told CNN they would look into whether their clients might apply for the funds.


  One attorney told CNN their client, a member of the Oath Keepers who infamously moved into the Capitol in a “stack formation” while dressed in camo and paramilitary garb, was “never the same” after the January 6 investigations and cases, struggling to find work and rebuild their life.


  The pro-Trump “fake electors” from 2020 also stand to benefit from the fund, especially because most of them became entangled in legal cases.


  These were 84 Republicans who signed certificates in seven key states like Georgia and Michigan, falsely proclaiming Trump won their state. This was part of a larger plot, overseen by the Trump campaign, to overturn Joe Biden’s victory while Congress certified the results on January 6, 2021.


  Democratic prosecutors in Michigan, Georgia, Wisconsin, Arizona and Nevada ended up charging some or all of the fake electors from their states.  Most of those cases were ultimately dismissed or were stalled by appeals.


  “Reading the announcement was an emotional relief,” Meshawn Maddock, one of the Republican electors from Michigan, told CNN. “I was debanked. I faced the real possibility of prison time. The trauma to my three kids and the thought of being separated from my grandchildren – it took a lot out of us.”


  A judge dropped the charges against Maddock and the other Michigan fake electors last year, due to insufficient evidence of intent to break the law.


  But a civil case against the GOP slate is ongoing, and legal fees are piling up. Kevin Kijewski, an attorney for fake elector Clifford Frost, said some of the 16 defendants have spent up to $300,000, and they deserve compensation.


  “This commission is a good idea,” Kijewski said. “Cliff paid a price personally, professionally and financially. His realtor business still hasn’t recovered since all this happened. Personal relationships were destroyed. The dismissal of criminal charges doesn’t pay back the legal fees and undo the damage.”


  Another Michigan elector, John Haggard, 84, was in the hospital for heart surgery on the day the charges were dropped in September. He attended the court hearing over Zoom, from his hospital bed, connected to machines, Kijewski said. Haggard died hours later.


  “This cost him his peace of mind, his money, and to some extent, his life,” Kijewski said.


  Other prominent 2020 election deniers could qualify for payments.


  Lindell, the beleaguered MyPillow CEO, said the fund was Trump’s way of “looking out for these people that were attacked.”


  After Trump lost the 2020 election, Lindell was one of the loudest voices promoting false claims about voting machines rigging the results. This led to several defamation lawsuits, including one where Lindell was ordered to pay $2.3 million in damages to an ex-Dominion Voting Systems executive. Lawsuits filed by Dominion and another company, Smartmatic, are ongoing.


  Lindell’s pursuit of election conspiracy theories after 2020 also led major retailers to pull his pillows from their shelves, it also prompted scrutiny from law enforcement – in 2022, Lindell’s phone was seized by the FBI.


  Former Colorado clerk Tina Peters could also benefit from the new DOJ fund, and her plight even received a shout-out from the Whtie House.


  Peters, 70, is in state prison for her role in a criminal conspiracy with some of Lindell’s associates to breach her county’s voting systems in 2021, in hopes of proving that the 2020 election was rigged. But she’ll be released early next month, after receiving a controversial commutation last week from Colorado Gov. Jared Polis, a Democrat, which swiftly drew bipartisan condemnation.


  Vice President JD Vance said Tuesday at a press conference that he thinks Peters is an “innocent grandmother” who got a “completely disproportionate” sentence, and therefore, it’s “reasonable for her to get some compensation.”


  One of Peters’ lawyers, John Case, told CNN the DOJ fund was “great news” but it’s still unclear how claims will be processed.


  Her team has argued for years that she was victimized by overzealous prosecutors and biased judges. Case noted that one of her criminal convictions, in a separate contempt case, was already overturned by an appeals court in 2024.


  A state appeals court recently upheld Peters’ felony convictions in the election-breach case. But the panel threw out her sentence and ordered a re-hearing, finding that the trial judge improperly based part of Peters’ punishment on her protected speech promoting 2020 election conspiracies.


  To those who oppose clemency and possible compensation for Peters, Case asked, “If a judge said you were going to prison for nine years, because of words you used to criticize the government, would you think that’s fair?”


  It’s possible that pro-Trump news outlets that paid millions of dollars in 2020-related legal settlements could now seek reimbursement from the DOJ.


  Chip Babcock, a lawyer for OAN, told CNN the company “is seriously considering pursuing rights under this fund and will make a decision shortly about whether to file a claim.”


  OAN settled lawsuits with Dominion and Smartmatic for unclosed amounts. The cases stemmed from OAN promoting egregious lies about voting machines flipping millions of ballots from Trump to Biden in 2020.


  Spokespeople for Fox News and Newsmax did not answer CNN’s questions about whether they would utilize the DOJ fund.


  Fox News paid $787 million to settle a 2020-related defamation lawsuit from Dominion. Newsmax paid about $107 million to settle lawsuits from Dominion and Smartmatic.


Correction: This story has been updated to reflect the name of OAN attorney Chip Babcock.



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

Extreme weather is a menace to homes. Here’s how you can protect your investment


  By Ella Nilsen, CNN


Updated: 
        7:00 AM EDT, Thu May 21, 2026
    

  Source: CNN


  Extreme weather has impacted every corner of the US, from deadly floods to sweltering heat. For Americans, the changing climate has made protecting their homes increasingly important.


  Finding a “climate haven” in the United States has become more difficult with the warming planet. Storms can dump biblical amounts of rain in mountainous regions from Vermont to Kentucky to New Mexico. In 2023, Phoenix spent over 50 days baking in over 110-degree Fahrenheit heat, and the city hit triple digits in March this year. The rest of the Southeast is staring down a historically dry start to the year, with fears about wildfires and drought.


  But there are key ways to make your home more resilient to a hotter climate and stronger weather, experts say. Much of it begins even before you buy the house.


  Some of the most important decisions you can make to climate-proof your home happen before the sale closes, experts told CNN. In many cases, learning about the natural environment around a home matters just as much as learning about the home itself.


  “The first step to protecting yourself from climate risk during the home buying process is simply knowing what the risk actually is,” Jeremy Porter, chief economist at risk modeling company First Street, wrote in an email to CNN.


  First Street uses models to generate risk scores for climate change-fueled disasters like wildfires, coastal and rainstorm flooding, high winds, extreme heat and air quality. These risk scores are displayed on real estate websites including Redfin and Realtor.com.


  (Zillow stopped featuring First Street’s climate data on home listings last year, after facing pressure from the California Regional Multiple Listing Service, a subscriber-based listing service. However, Zillow still links its data.)


  Especially as home insurance costs in some areas climb, a prospective homebuyer looking at their risk profile “gets a much clearer picture of what that home will really cost them year over year,” Porter said.


  Prospective homeowners may want to find towns that are intentionally designed to withstand stronger storms, bigger wildfires or even hotter temperatures.


  For example, the town of Babcock Ranch lies 50 miles south of Tampa on Florida’s Gulf Coast and has successfully weathered multiple major hurricanes.


  The town was built to withstand stronger storms with a natural wetland barrier and a series of interconnected lakes that serve as catch basins for excess flood water. And Babcock Ranch buried power lines and built a vast solar array to keep the lights on during four major hurricanes in the last nine years.


  But most prospective homeowners don’t have the advantage of buying into a town that was intentionally designed to withstand extreme weather. When looking in mountainous areas, find homes at higher elevations and away from rivers or streams – or engineer earthen berms and swales that help guide flooding runoff away from the home, experts say.


  Homeowners “at pretty much any budget” can make their homes more resilient, Porter said.


  People at risk of flooding can extend their downspouts farther away from their home’s foundation or seal foundation cracks. For those at risk of high winds, trimming trees near the house and reinforcing the garage door are lower-cost fixes.


  People living in an area with wildfire risk can keep dry vegetation away from their houses and install vent screens resistant to embers. Far more expensive options include fortifying a home’s roof and siding to be resistant to wind or wildfire or fully elevating a home in a flood-prone area.


  Once again, looking at the environment around the home is a good starting point. Having a home or apartment in an environment with lots of trees can help provide ample natural shade. On the other hand, having a home in an area with ample sunlight can help homeowners with solar panels generate their own energy.


  Good insulation is one of the most important components for comfort and energy efficiency inside a home, said Jonathan Grinham, assistant professor of architecture at Harvard University.


  “If it’s hot outside, we can keep that heat from transferring into the building. The building is going to stay cooler, and we’re going to require less cooling,” Grinham said. Insulation acts the opposite way in the wintertime, creating a barrier to keep the cold air out and warm air in.


  “The system’s going to have to work less” with good insulation, Grinham said.


  That insulation helps save homeowners money on their bills, and it’s better for the climate – especially when paired with energy-efficient appliances like heat pumps and rooftop solar systems. Those appliances can cost more up front but save consumers energy and money in the long run.


  For Grinham, energy efficiency and climate resiliency often go hand in hand.


  “For me, it’s less can we climate-proof, but it’s more of what quality of life do we want to live,” he said. “The strategies that we have for improving the home around climate are going to provide a better quality of life.”



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

New record set as 274 climbers scale Everest’s south side in single day


  By Sophie Tanno, CNN


Updated: 
        9:15 AM EDT, Thu May 21, 2026
    

  Source: CNN


  A record 274 climbers scaled Mount Everest on Wednesday, the highest number to reach the summit from the mountain’s south side in a single day, a Nepali hiking official said.


  That’s nearly 50 more than the previous high of 223 set on May 22, 2019, though the overall number was higher that day because some climbers reached the summit from the mountain’s northern side in Tibet. China issued no permits to climb the north face this year, according to reports.


  Rishi Bhandari, secretary general of the Expedition Operators Association of Nepal, confirmed the figure to CNN, crediting good weather conditions and the large number of climbers waiting to ascend the 8,848-meter (29,029 feet) peak. Strong winds are forecast for later in the week, Bhandari said


  Overcrowding has been a growing problem on Everest for years, with one infamous 2019 photo taken by climber Nirmal Purja showing a long line of climbers huddling on an exposed ridge waiting to reach the summit. He told CNN at the time that there were roughly 320 people in the queue to the top in an area known as the “death zone.”


  The world’s highest mountain, Mount Everest has a key window in spring for alpinists hoping to reach the summit, usually occurring in mid-to-late May. Harsh winter winds ease during this time, allowing for climbers to better push for the top.


  This year, the annual spring climbing season got underway after a blockage of the route to the summit caused disruptions for hundreds of hopeful climbers.


  Glacial ice impeding the path kept alpinists stuck at Base Camp as specialized high-altitude workers known as “icefall doctors” worked for weeks to remove the large frozen block, known as a serac.


  The route was eventually unblocked on May 13, but the delay sparked fears of overcrowding on the mountain, due to the buildup of climbers and the shorter window for them to reach the summit.


  Nepal has issued nearly 500 permits to climb the mountain this year.



      Go to the full CNN experience
    


==================================================

